Copyright (C) 2003--2005 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (C) 2011 Google Inc

   This file is free documentation; the copyright holders give
unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.

Ymer 4.0
========

Ymer is a tool for verifying probabilistic transient properties of
continuous-time Markov chains (CTMCs) and generalized semi-Markov
processes (GSMPs).  Properties are expressed using the Continuous
Stochastic Logic (CSL).

To handle the full generality of GSMPs, Ymer implements statistical
techniques, based on discrete event simulation and sequential
acceptance sampling, for CSL model checking.  Ymer includes support
for distributed acceptance sampling, i.e. the use of multiple machines
to generate samples, which can result in significant speedup as each
sample can be generated independently.


Installation
============

Installation instructions are available in INSTALL.


Running Ymer
============

Ymer is controlled by a command line interface.  Run `./ymer --help'
for details on available command line options.


Distributed sampling
====================

To start Ymer in server mode, provide a port with the command line
options.  The server will accept connections from clients, which will
provide the server with samples.  To connect a client to a server,
pass a host name and a port to Ymer.  The following commands give you
an example of how to use distributed sampling with Ymer:

  cpu1> ymer -p 5000 examples/tandem63.sm examples/tandem500.csl

  cpu2> ymer -h cpu1 -p 5000 examples/tandem63.sm examples/tandem500.csl

  cpu3> ymer -h cpu1 -p 5000 examples/tandem63.sm examples/tandem500.csl

This starts a server on a machine called `cpu1' and a client on each
of the machines called `cpu2' and `cpu3'.  Once enough samples have
been generated, the server terminates, which in turn causes the
clients to terminate as well.

Using ssh, for example, it is possible to write a script that will
start a server locally and a set of clients on remote machines.  An
example of such a script is `scripts/ymer-dist2', which runs a server
on the local machine and two sample generating clients on two machines
named `sweden' and `gs222'.

Note that the model and property files must be available on all
machines running Ymer.  The behavior of Ymer is unspecified if a
client uses a different model or property than the server it connects
to.
